Type: Blog Post (Markdown)
Blog: psychedelica
Link: http://psychedeli.ca/2011/04/25/bread-its-whats-for-dinner
Post: 16
Title: bread. it's what's for dinner.
Format: none
Date: 2011-04-25 02:25:17 -0400
Pings: Off
Comments: On
Category: development

The idea of having your own website simply to provide a stationary, nice-looking place for people to check out your band is going by the wayside. As Facebook, Soundcloud and MySpace make it ever easier to establish your band's online presence and connect with your fans, for free, an electronic press kit doesn't seem like something you should be concerning yourself with. But promotion is everything sometimes, and [it just got a lot easier](http://github.com/tubbo/bread)

✂------✂------✂------✂------✂------✂------✂------✂------✂------✂------

The fact is, bands and artists with a professionally-designed, up-to-date website appear more professional, and are treated more professionally by "the suits". So to make that part of the job a tad easier, I'm developing an electronic press kit for my band that [you can use as well](http://github.com/tubbo/bread). Be forewarned: this application is still in development and may be fucked up...I haven't tested it on a production level yet and won't get to until I can get <http://thewonderbars.com/> up and running!

## why should i use bread over Bandcamp?
Don't get me wrong, I love [Bandcamp](http://Bandcamp.com). I even [use it myself](http://wonderbars.Bandcamp.com). But bands looking for a more professional online presence, with a domain name and a design-driven CMS, will eventually find Bandcamp to be quite limiting. **bread** allows you to design your own template from scratch, and build your site the way you want to. There are no rules, and no guarantees, but Bread aims to make your life a little easier by providing a rock-solid backend to a beautiful frontend. 

## cotton...i mean...content is king
Because an online presence isn't just about 

## wait...this is just a static page server and a single RESTful controller? what gives?!?
It's not fucking done yet! Be patient, I have a limited amount of time to work on this shit and honestly, I'd rather be [rehearsing the 'Bars](http://pexsummerfestival.com) instead of coding. But soon, this application will be a totally "cloud-based" electronic press kit, aggregating data from all sources and attempting to create a web site with such relevant data.

When you update the "Member Info" section on your band's Facebook page, wouldn't it be cool if you didn't have to copy/paste the change into your main site? Bread simply reads from this data field at all times, basically "skinning" the information that's already been entered into the Facebook page that people are more likely seeing anyway. Need to change your bio? When you update it on Facebook, Bread can update your bio page on the EPK. A fan browsing your Facebook page should have access to the same information as an A&R rep or a promoter who may be deciding whether to book your band or not, and that information should be of high quality in all of its forms. 

News updates have never been easier. Immediately get the word out by providing Twitter updates. **bread** offers several different methods of grabbing updates, including a "news ticker" system that shows updates by the band's Twitter as well as member Twitter accounts, so fans can keep track of all members throughout their daily lives. This news ticker will also aggregate Facebook updates, mentions on Last.FM and Digg, and much more.

**bread** just saves you time, and synchronizes all of the most popular social networking sites together to create a basic electronic press kit for your band. try it out!
